---
layout: post
title: "Las Pozas"
date: 2019-10-30T17:32:20-06:00
location: "Pinal de Amoles, Querétaro, Mexico"
---

I made my way east to the pueblo magico of Xilitla for pretty much the sole purpose of seeing Las Pozas (The Pools), a surrealist garden nestled in the subtropical mountainous rainforest. It’s the work of Edward James, an eccentric British aristocrat and patron of Dalí and Magritte. I’ll let the pictures do the talking:

{% picture laspozas1.jpg --alt "Las Pozas" %}
{% picture laspozas2.jpg --alt "Las Pozas" %}
{% picture laspozas3.jpg --alt "Las Pozas" %}
{% picture laspozas4.jpg --alt "Las Pozas" %}
{% picture laspozas5.jpg --alt "Las Pozas" %}
{% picture laspozas6.jpg --alt "Las Pozas" %}
{% picture laspozas7.jpg --alt "Las Pozas" %}

It didn’t disappoint. Incidentally, it’s also the first time this trip that I’ve gotten a little taste of the (sub)tropics, with its heavy air and fruit trees and jungle and ice cream stands. Mikey likey. Also, I suspect the entire region, the Huasteca Potosina, deserves a lot of time and exploration.

Alas, I’ve got some business to tend to back on the plateau.

On the way, my home for tonight is a very nice town in the Sierra Gorda, Pinal de Amoles.

{% picture pinaldeamolesplaza.jpg --alt A decorated plaza in Pinal de Amoles %}
{% picture pinaldeamoleschurch.jpg --alt The church in Pinal de Amoles %}
{% picture pinaldeamolesmonument.jpg --alt A Soviet-looking monument in Pinal de Amoles %}
{% picture pinaldeamolesstreet.jpg --alt A festive street in Pinal de Amoles %}